README.md, before:

# onion.nvim

Layer your Neovim configuration like an onion - clean defaults with user overrides on top.

## Why?

If you maintain a Neovim config that others use (or even just yourself across
machines), you've probably run into this: you want sensible defaults, but you
also want to tweak things per-machine without editing the main config.

onion.nvim gives you a simple layered config system. Set your defaults once,
override them anywhere, and the merged result is always what you get. User
overrides can be saved to a file and loaded automatically.

## Installation

With [lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim):

```lua
{
  'vitaly/onion.nvim',
  config = function()
    require('onion').setup({
      save_path = vim.fn.stdpath('config') .. '/config.lua',
    })
  end,
}
```

## Quick Start

```lua
local config = require('onion')

-- Set some defaults (usually in your main config)
config.set_defaults('colorscheme', 'tokyonight')
config.set_defaults('formatting', {
  enabled = true,
  indent = 2,
})
config.set_defaults('lsp.servers', {
  lua_ls = {},
  rust_analyzer = { settings = { checkOnSave = true } },
})

-- Later, read the merged config
local scheme = config.get('colorscheme')  -- 'tokyonight'
local indent = config.get('formatting.indent')  -- 2

-- Override something (this goes into user overrides, not defaults)
config.set('colorscheme', 'gruvbox')
config.set('formatting.indent', 4)

-- Now get returns the overridden values
config.get('colorscheme')  -- 'gruvbox'
config.get('formatting.indent')  -- 4

-- But you can still check the original default
config.get_default('colorscheme')  -- 'tokyonight'
```

## Setup Options

```lua
require('onion').setup({
  -- Path to save/load user overrides (optional)
  save_path = vim.fn.stdpath('config') .. '/onion_user.lua',

  -- Log level for debugging (default: vim.log.levels.WARN)
  log_level = vim.log.levels.DEBUG,

  -- Auto-save user overrides on every change (default: false)
  auto_save = false,

  -- Auto-save when exiting Neovim (default: false)
  auto_save_on_exit = true,

  -- You can also pass defaults directly in setup
  defaults = {
    colorscheme = 'tokyonight',
    formatting = { enabled = true },
    ['lsp.timeout'] = 5000,
  },
})
```

## Commands

onion.nvim comes with an `:Onion` command for interactive use:

```vim
:Onion show                   " Show merged config
:Onion show formatting        " Show specific path
:Onion show --defaults        " Show only defaults
:Onion show --user            " Show only user overrides

:Onion reset                  " Reset all user overrides
:Onion reset formatting       " Reset specific path

:Onion save                   " Save user overrides to file
:Onion load                   " Load user overrides from file

:Onion edit                   " Open the config file in a split (auto-reloads on save)
```

## API

### Setting Values

```lua
-- Set defaults (usually done once in your config)
config.set_defaults('key', value)
config.set_defaults('nested.key', value)
config.set_defaults('lsp', { servers = { lua_ls = {} } })

-- Set user overrides
config.set('key', value)
config.set('nested.key', value)
```

### Getting Values

```lua
-- Get merged value (defaults + user overrides)
config.get('key')
config.get('nested.key')

-- Get only the default value
config.get_default('key')

-- Get only the user override (nil if not overridden)
config.get_user('key')
```

### Reset

```lua
-- Reset all user overrides (defaults are preserved)
config.reset()

-- Reset specific path
config.reset('formatting.indent')
```

### Save/Load

```lua
-- Save user overrides to file
config.save()  -- uses save_path from setup
config.save('/path/to/file.lua')

-- Load user overrides from file
config.load()  -- uses save_path from setup
config.load('/path/to/file.lua')
```

## How It Works

onion.nvim maintains three internal tables:

1. **defaults** - Set via `set_defaults()`, typically by plugin authors or your base config
2. **user** - Set via `set()`, these are your personal overrides
3. **merged** - Automatically computed by deep-merging defaults with user overrides

When you call `get()`, you always get from the merged table. User values take precedence over defaults.

The saved file is just a Lua table, so it's human-readable and editable:

```lua
return {
  colorscheme = "gruvbox",
  formatting = {
    indent = 4
  }
}
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

added default to config.get
useful when missing `enabled`, actually means true

README.md, after:

# onion.nvim

Layer your Neovim configuration like an onion - clean defaults with user overrides on top.

## Why?

If you maintain a Neovim config that others use (or even just yourself across
machines), you've probably run into this: you want sensible defaults, but you
also want to tweak things per-machine without editing the main config.

onion.nvim gives you a simple layered config system. Set your defaults once,
override them anywhere, and the merged result is always what you get. User
overrides can be saved to a file and loaded automatically.

## Installation

With [lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim):

```lua
{
  'vitaly/onion.nvim',
  config = function()
    require('onion').setup({
      save_path = vim.fn.stdpath('config') .. '/config.lua',
    })
  end,
}
```

## Quick Start

```lua
local config = require('onion')

-- Set some defaults (usually in your main config)
config.set_defaults('colorscheme', 'tokyonight')
config.set_defaults('formatting', {
  enabled = true,
  indent = 2,
})
config.set_defaults('lsp.servers', {
  lua_ls = {},
  rust_analyzer = { settings = { checkOnSave = true } },
})

-- Later, read the merged config
local scheme = config.get('colorscheme')  -- 'tokyonight'
local indent = config.get('formatting.indent')  -- 2

-- Override something (this goes into user overrides, not defaults)
config.set('colorscheme', 'gruvbox')
config.set('formatting.indent', 4)

-- Now get returns the overridden values
config.get('colorscheme')  -- 'gruvbox'
config.get('formatting.indent')  -- 4

-- But you can still check the original default
config.get_default('colorscheme')  -- 'tokyonight'
```

## Setup Options

```lua
require('onion').setup({
  -- Path to save/load user overrides (optional)
  save_path = vim.fn.stdpath('config') .. '/onion_user.lua',

  -- Log level for debugging (default: vim.log.levels.WARN)
  log_level = vim.log.levels.DEBUG,

  -- Auto-save user overrides on every change (default: false)
  auto_save = false,

  -- Auto-save when exiting Neovim (default: false)
  auto_save_on_exit = true,

  -- You can also pass defaults directly in setup
  defaults = {
    colorscheme = 'tokyonight',
    formatting = { enabled = true },
    ['lsp.timeout'] = 5000,
  },
})
```

## Commands

onion.nvim comes with an `:Onion` command for interactive use:

```vim
:Onion show                   " Show merged config
:Onion show formatting        " Show specific path
:Onion show --defaults        " Show only defaults
:Onion show --user            " Show only user overrides

:Onion reset                  " Reset all user overrides
:Onion reset formatting       " Reset specific path

:Onion save                   " Save user overrides to file
:Onion load                   " Load user overrides from file

:Onion edit                   " Open the config file in a split (auto-reloads on save)
```

## API

### Setting Values

```lua
-- Set defaults (usually done once in your config)
config.set_defaults('key', value)
config.set_defaults('nested.key', value)
config.set_defaults('lsp', { servers = { lua_ls = {} } })

-- Set user overrides
config.set('key', value)
config.set('nested.key', value)
```

### Getting Values

```lua
-- Get merged value (defaults + user overrides)
config.get('key')
config.get('nested.key')

-- Get with default value (useful for toggling boolean settings)
config.get('feature.enabled', true)  -- Returns true if feature.enabled is not set

-- Example: toggling a setting with a default of true
config.set('something.enabled', not config.get('something.enabled', true))

-- Get only the default value
config.get_default('key')

-- Get only the user override (nil if not overridden)
config.get_user('key')
```

### Reset

```lua
-- Reset all user overrides (defaults are preserved)
config.reset()

-- Reset specific path
config.reset('formatting.indent')
```

### Save/Load

```lua
-- Save user overrides to file
config.save()  -- uses save_path from setup
config.save('/path/to/file.lua')

-- Load user overrides from file
config.load()  -- uses save_path from setup
config.load('/path/to/file.lua')
```

## How It Works

onion.nvim maintains three internal tables:

1. **defaults** - Set via `set_defaults()`, typically by plugin authors or your base config
2. **user** - Set via `set()`, these are your personal overrides
3. **merged** - Automatically computed by deep-merging defaults with user overrides

When you call `get()`, you always get from the merged table. User values take precedence over defaults.

The saved file is just a Lua table, so it's human-readable and editable:

```lua
return {
  colorscheme = "gruvbox",
  formatting = {
    indent = 4
  }
}
```

## License

MIT
